Zenfiles2/customer satisfaction (#13)
zenml-io/zenfiles: customer_satisfaction/README.md

The purpose of this repository is to demonstrate how [ZenML](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml) empowers your business to build and deploy machine learning pipelines in a multitude of ways:

* By offering you a framework or template to develop within
* By integration of tools like MLflow deployment, MLflow tracking and more
* By allowing you to build and deploy your machine learning pipelines easily 

## :snake: Python Requirements

Let's jump into the Python packages you need. Within the Python environment of your choice, run:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zenml-io/zenfiles.git
cd customer_satisfaction
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you are running the `run_deployment.py` script, you will also need to install some integrations using ZenML:

```bash
zenml integration install mlflow -f
```

## :thumbsup: The Task

> Our team at ZenML was looking for a project which is model-centric, data-centric and ZenML centric for our next Zenfile. During our initial discussions, we listed several questions like What will be the use case for this zenfile? What's the impact of this zenfile? etc., to evaluate a zenfile. We found out that it would be great if we build an end-to-end pipeline for predicting the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase, which will help businesses make better decisions. We can't just train our model in our local system, and we need to serve the users, so we need it to be deployed in the cloud. We need machine learning pipelines for machine learning at scale, an end-to-end construct that orchestrates the flow of data into and output from a machine learning model (or set of multiple models). It includes raw data input, features, results, the machine learning model and model parameters, and prediction outputs. And All these capabilities are built on top of the ZenML framework.

Author: Yeah make sense, although, I think it would not make sense to include all of this, in the next revision thinking to remove it

As a result of this discussion, we decided to build a pipeline to predict the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase. We gave special consideration to ZenML standard pipeline and its steps, MLflow tracking to track our metrics and parameters, and MLflow deployment to deploy our model. 

Our standard training pipeline consists of several steps: 

* ingest_data:- This step will ingest the data from the dataset and create a data frame.
* clean_data:- This step will clean the data and remove the unwanted columns. 
* model_train:- This step will train the model and save the model using MLflow auto logging. 

> * evaluation:- This step will evaluate the model and save the metrics using mlfow autlogging into the artifact store.  

Reviewer: 2 typos here...

> ### Depoloyment & Inference Pipeline 

Reviewer: Typo

> We have another pipeline, the deployment_pipeline.py, that implements a continuous deployment workflow. It ingests and processes input data, trains a model and then (re)deploys the prediction server that serves the model if it meets some evaluation criteria.

Reviewer: Maybe, instead of just saying 'some evaluation criteria', you could state what the criteria is?

We also have an inference pipeline that interacts with the continuous prediction server deployed to get online predictions based on live data. The inference pipeline simulates loading data from a dynamic external source and then uses that data to perform online predictions using the running MLflow prediction server.

![training_and_deployment_pipeline](_assets/training_and_deployment_pipeline.png)

## :notebook: Diving into the code

You have two pipelines to run, `run_pipeline.py`, a traditional ZenML Pipeline, and `run_deployment.py`, a continuous deployment pipeline. So, if you want to run `run_pipeline.py`, you can run the following command: 

```bash
python run_pipeline.py
```

And this will run the standard ZenML pipeline. If you want to run `run_deployment.py`, you can run the following command:

```bash
python run_deployment.py
```

## :question: FAQ

> 1. When running the continuous deployment pipeline, I get an error about No Step found for the name `mlflow_deployer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When running the continuous deployment pipeline, I get an error about No Step found for the name `mlflow_deployer`.
```

Maybe instead of "I get an error about No Step found"... you could specify what error gets raised?

Author: Sure

> Solution: It happens because your artifact store is overridden after running the continuous deployment pipeline. So, you need to delete the artifact store and rerun the pipeline. You can get to know the location of the artifact store by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solution: It happens because your artifact store is overridden after running the continuous deployment pipeline. So, you need to delete the artifact store and rerun the pipeline. You can get the location of the artifact store by running the following command:
```

```bash
zenml artifact-store describe
``` 

> and then you can delete the artifact store by the following command:- 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then you can delete the artifact store with the following command:
```

```bash

> rm -rf PATH

Reviewer: Probably worth making a very clear warning to the user that this is a dangerous command and that it can do bad things to their computer if they don't pass in the right path...

```

> 2. When running the continuous deployment pipeline, I get an error about ```No Environment component with name mlflow is currently registered.``` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When running the continuous deployment pipeline, I get the following error: `No Environment component with name mlflow is currently registered.`
```

> # End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML 

Author: Hmm, yeah, Let me know what u did like to keep?

> # End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML 

Reviewer 2: How about:

'Predicting how a customer will feel about a product before he knows it' - with ZenML

> # End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML 

Author: Looks good but can't we simplify a little bit more?, but I am okay with this

> # End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML 

Author: How about "Customer Caring for Businesses with ZenML" ?

> # End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML 

Author: I have some more:- 
How ZenML can help your business in building End to End Customer Satisfaction System? 
The guide on building customer satisfaction with ZenML

[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/zenml)](https://pypi.org/project/zenml/)

> **Problem statement**:- For a given historical data of the customer predict the review score for the next order or purchase. I will be using [Brazilian E-Commerce Public Dataset by Olist](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/olistbr/brazilian-ecommerce) dataset, The data-set has information of 100k orders from 2016 to 2018 made at multiple marketplaces in Brazil. Its features allow viewing orders from multiple dimensions: from order status, price, payment, and freight performance to customer location, product attributes and finally reviews written by customers. The objective here is to predict the customer satisfaction score for a given order based on the given features like order status, price, payment, etc. I will be using the [ZenML](https://zenml.io/) framework to build a production ready pipeline to predict the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase.

Author: Sure

> The Purpose of this repository is to demonstrate how [ZenML](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml) empowers your business to build and deploy machine learning pipelines in a multitude of ways:

Reviewer: We might want to be careful about how much we claim that this is a 'real business' use case. What we have in this ZenFile is a much smaller example. A real business example would be on a different scale.

Author: Agree with this but don't you think it will attract peoples as well

* By offering you a framework or template to develop within
* By integration of tools like mlflow deployment, mlflow tracking and more

> * By allowing you to easily build and deploy your machine learning pipelines 

Author: I think from my perspective ZenML is helping in:- 
Building Continuous Deployment Pipeline using mlflow deployment integration and we are also using mlflow tracking which is helping to track model performance.

> ZenML is an extensible, open-source MLOps framework to create production-ready machine learning pipelines. Built for data scientists, it has a simple, flexible syntax, is cloud- and tool-agnostic, and has interfaces/abstractions that are catered towards ML workflows.

Author: Sure

## :snake: Python Requirements

Let's jump into the Python packages you need. Within the Python environment of your choice, run:

```bash
https://github.com/zenml-io/zenfiles.git
cd customer_satisfaction
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you are running the `run_deployment.py` script, you will also need to install some integrations using zenml:

```bash
zenml integration install mlflow -f
```

## :basketball: The Task

> Our team at ZenML was looking for a project which is model centric, data centric and zenml centirc for our next Zenfile. During our intiial discussions we listed out several questions like What will be the usecase for this zenfile? what's the impact of this zenfile?, etc. to evaluate a zenfile. We found out that it would be really great if we build an end to end pipeline for predicting the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase which will help businesses to take better decisions. 

Author: Thanks, it makes sense, I will add it thinking from perspective of a reader

> As a result of this discussion we decided to build a pipeline which will predict the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase. We given special consideration to zenml standard pipeline and it's steps, mlflow tracking to track our metrics and parameters, mlflow deployment to deploy our model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result of this discussion we decided to build a pipeline which will predict the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase. We given special consideration to ZenML standard pipeline and its steps, MLflow tracking to track our metrics and parameters, MLflow deployment to deploy our model. 
```

Our standard training pipeline consists of several steps: 

* ingest_data  :- This step will ingest the data from the dataset and will create a dataframe.
* clean_data   :- This step will clean the data and remove the unwanted columns. 
* model_train  :- This step will train the model and will save the model using mlfow autlogging. 
* evaluation   :- This step will evaluate the model and will save the metrics using mlfow autlogging into the artifact store.  

> We have another pipeline which is the deployment_pipeline.py that implements a continuous deployment workflow. It ingests and processes input data, trains a model and then (re)deploys the prediction server that serves the model if it meets some evaluation criteria.

Reviewer: I think a lot of this would be much clearer with a well-thought-out diagram or two.

We also have an inference pipeline that interacts with the prediction server deployed by the continuous deployment pipeline to get online predictions based on live data. 

> 

Author: Sure, I will add it

In the deployment pipeline, ZenML's MLflow tracking integration is used to log the hyperparameter values -- as well as the trained model itself and the model evaluation metrics -- as MLflow experiment tracking artifacts into the local MLflow backend. This pipeline also launches a local MLflow deployment server to serve the latest MLflow model if its accuracy is above a configured threshold.

The MLflow deployment server is running locally as a daemon process that will continue to run in the background after the example execution is complete.

The deployment pipeline has caching enabled to avoid re-training the model if the training data and hyperparameter values don't change. When a new model is trained that passes the accuracy threshold validation, the pipeline automatically updates the currently running MLflow deployment server so that the new model is being served instead of the old one.

The inference pipeline simulates loading data from a dynamic external source, then uses that data to perform online predictions using the running MLflow prediction server.

## :notebook: Diving into the code

> You have two pipelines to run, `run_pipeline.py` which is standard ZenML Pipeline and `run_deployment.py` which is continuous deployment pipeline. So, if you want to run `run_pipeline.py` you can run the following command: 

Author: Sure

> You have two pipelines to run, `run_pipeline.py` which is standard ZenML Pipeline and `run_deployment.py` which is continuous deployment pipeline. So, if you want to run `run_pipeline.py` you can run the following command: 

Author: I should say traditional

> You have two pipelines to run, `run_pipeline.py` which is standard ZenML Pipeline and `run_deployment.py` which is continuous deployment pipeline. So, if you want to run `run_pipeline.py` you can run the following command: 

Reviewer 2: i think it would be more helpful to know what this pipeline does - does it train a model? then call it a model training pipeline.

# End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML 
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/zenml)](https://pypi.org/project/zenml/)

> **Problem statement**:- For a given customer's historical data, predict the review score for the next order or purchase. I will be using the [Brazilian E-Commerce Public Dataset by Olist](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/olistbr/brazilian-ecommerce) dataset. This dataset has information on 100,000 orders from 2016 to 2018 made at multiple marketplaces in Brazil. Its features allow viewing charges from various dimensions: from order status, price, payment, freight performance to customer location, product attributes and finally, reviews written by customers. The objective here is to predict the customer satisfaction score for a given order based on features like order status, price, payment, etc. I will be using the [ZenML framework](https://zenml.io/) to build a production-ready pipeline to predict the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase.

Author: I think it's good to go with production ready

The purpose of this repository is to demonstrate how [ZenML](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml) empowers your business to build and deploy machine learning pipelines in a multitude of ways:

* By offering you a framework or template to develop within
* By integrating with tools like MLflow for deployment, tracking and more
* By allowing you to build and deploy your machine learning pipelines easily 

## :snake: Python Requirements

Let's jump into the Python packages you need. Within the Python environment of your choice, run:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zenml-io/zenfiles.git
cd customer_satisfaction
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you are running the `run_deployment.py` script, you will also need to install some integrations using ZenML:

```bash
zenml integration install mlflow -f
```

## :thumbsup: The Task

> We build an end-to-end pipeline for predicting the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase, which will help businesses make better decisions. We can't just train our model in our local system, and we need to serve the users, so we need it to be deployed in the cloud. We need machine learning pipelines for machine learning at scale, an end-to-end construct that orchestrates the flow of data into and output from a machine learning model (or set of multiple models). It includes raw data input, features, results, the machine learning model and model parameters, and prediction outputs. And All these capabilities are built on top of the ZenML framework.

Author: I think it depends on places like "We" include "us" but I will only include "me", so may be that's not fair

We built a pipeline to predict the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase. We gave special consideration to ZenML standard pipeline and its steps, MLflow tracking to track our metrics and parameters, and MLflow deployment to deploy our model. 

Our standard training pipeline consists of several steps: 

* `ingest_data`:- This step will ingest the data and create a DataFrame.
* `clean_data`:- This step will clean the data and remove the unwanted columns. 
* `model_train`:- This step will train the model and save the model using [MLflow auto logging](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html). 
* `evaluation`:- This step will evaluate the model and save the metrics using MLflow autologging into the artifact store.  

### Depoloyment & Inference Pipeline 

> We have another pipeline, the deployment_pipeline.py, that implements a continuous deployment workflow. It ingests and processes input data, trains a model and then (re)deploys the prediction server that serves the model if it meets our evaluation criteria which is r2 score, you can also set your own minimum r2 score.

Author: Sure!

In the deployment pipeline, ZenML's MLflow tracking integration is used for logging the hyperparameter values and the trained model itself and the model evaluation metrics -- as MLflow experiment tracking artifacts into the local MLflow backend. This pipeline also launches a local MLflow deployment server to serve the latest MLflow model if its accuracy is above a configured threshold.

> The MLflow deployment server runs locally as a daemon process that will continue to run in the background after the example execution is complete.

Reviewer: Also not sure if anything will break about this behaviour with the new release? Assuming not....

The deployment pipeline has caching enabled to avoid re-training the model if the training data and hyperparameter values don't change. When a new model is trained and passes the accuracy threshold validation, the pipeline automatically updates the currently running MLflow deployment server to serve the new model instead of the old one.

We also have an inference pipeline that interacts with the continuous prediction server deployed to get online predictions based on live data. The inference pipeline simulates loading data from a dynamic external source and then uses that data to perform online predictions using the running MLflow prediction server.

![training_and_deployment_pipeline](_assets/training_and_deployment_pipeline_updated.png)

## :notebook: Diving into the code

You have two pipelines to run, `run_pipeline.py`, a traditional ZenML Pipeline, and `run_deployment.py`, a continuous deployment pipeline. So, if you want to run `run_pipeline.py`, you can run the following command: 

```bash
python run_pipeline.py
```

> And this will run the standard ZenML pipeline. If you want to run `run_deployment.py`, you can run the following command:

Author: Sure, Thanks for catching it

> # End to End Customer Satisfaction Pipeline with ZenML

Reviewer: @AlexejPenner had a good title suggestion for this (I think in the blog review, or maybe somewhere down in this review?)

## :thumbsup: The Task

> Our team at ZenML was looking for a project which is model centric, data centric and zenml centirc for our next Zenfile. During our intiial discussions we listed out several questions like What will be the usecase for this zenfile? what's the impact of this zenfile?, etc. to evaluate a zenfile. We found out that it would be really great if we build an end to end pipeline for predicting the customer satisfaction score for the next order or purchase which will help businesses to take better decisions. We can't just train our model in our local system and we need to serve to the users, so we need it to be deployed in the cloud. For doing Machine learning at scale we need machine learning pipelines which is an end-to-end construct that orchestrates the flow of data into, and output from, a machine learning model (or set of multiple models). It includes raw data input, features, outputs, the machine learning model and model parameters, and prediction outputs. and All these capbilities are built on top of the zenml framework.

Reviewer: I think following on from @AlexejPenner's point, I think you can maybe just focus on the problem itself rather than talking about ZenFiles or ZenML or our internal discussion. I'm not sure that readers care about our internal discussion, but they do care about the actual problem you're trying to solve.

The MLflow deployment server is running locally as a daemon process that will continue to run in the background after the example execution is complete.

The deployment pipeline has caching enabled to avoid re-training the model if the training data and hyperparameter values don't change. When a new model is trained that passes the accuracy threshold validation, the pipeline automatically updates the currently running MLflow deployment server so that the new model is being served instead of the old one.

We also have an inference pipeline that interacts with the prediction server deployed by the continuous deployment pipeline to get online predictions based on live data. The inference pipeline simulates loading data from a dynamic external source, then uses that data to perform online predictions using the running MLflow prediction server.

> ![training_and_deployment_pipeline](_assets/training_and_deployment_pipeline.png)

Reviewer: could you make the line connecting the training pipeline at the top down to where it is in the bigger pipeline below a bit bigger / bolder? Also maybe make the captions for each pipeline ("Training Pipeline" etc) a bit bigger? They're really small right now.
